# Employee Management System API

This is a Django REST Framework project for an Employee Management System. It provides a set of APIs for managing employees, departments, attendance, and performance.

## Features

- **Employee Management**: Create, retrieve, update, and delete employee records.
- **Department Management**: Organize employees into departments.
- **Attendance Tracking**: Log daily employee attendance.
- **Performance Evaluation**: Track and manage employee performance.
- **API Documentation**: Interactive API documentation with Swagger UI.
- **Data Visualization**: A dashboard with charts to visualize key metrics.

## Getting Started

Follow these instructions to set up and run the project locally.

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.8+
- pip (Python package installer)

### Installation

1.  Clone the repository:
    ```bash
    git clone git@github.com:wouyang2/Intern_Final_Backend_Project.git
    
    cd Intern_Final_Backend_Project
    ```

2.  Create a virtual environment (recommended):
    ```bash
    python -m venv venv
    source venv/bin/activate 
    ```

3.  Install the required packages:
    ```bash
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```

4.  Run database migrations:
    ```bash
    python manage.py makemigrations
    python manage.py migrate
    ```

5.  Create a superuser to access the Django admin panel:
    ```bash
    python manage.py createsuperuser
    ```
6.  Once created your own user account, obtain an API token by making a POST request to the api/api-token-auth/ endpoint.
    ```bash
    curl -X POST \
    http://127.0.0.1:8000/api-token-auth/ \
    -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
    -d '{"username": "your_username",
    "password": "your_password"}'
    ```
7.  (Optional) Seed the database with sample data:
    ```bash
    python manage.py seed_data
    ```

### Running the Server

Start the Django development server:

```bash
python manage.py runserver
```


### API Documentation 

The project includes interactive API documentation generated by **`drf-yasg`**. You can access it at the following URLs:

- **Swagger UI (Interactive)**: `http://127.0.0.1:8000/swagger/`


### Visualization 

A simple dashboard with key metrics is available. Once the server is running, you can view the charts at:

- **Dashboard**: `http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/chart`